Pakistan is a Muslim country, located in southern Asia. 
The neighboring countries are India, Iran, Afghanistan, 
and China. It is officially called the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. 
In the south, it has long coastline along the Arabian Sea. Pakistan
 is the 34th largest country in the world and has the 7th largest army
  in the world. The capital of Pakistan is Islamabad. Before 1960, it
   was Karachi, which is now the country’s largest city. The motto of 
   the country is Unity, Discipline, and Faith. The national language 
   is URDU. The name Pakistan means Land of the Pure in Persian and Urdu.

History of Pakistan
The struggle for Pakistan was started when the Muslim of 
sub-continent got harassed by the Indian government and was 
not getting their proper rights. Pakistani leader Sir Syed 
Ahmed Khan firstly used the word“Nation” for the Muslims. After his 
“Two Nation Theory” and Allama Iqbal’s thought about a separate state 
in which Muslim can live according to Islamic teachings. The Muslims of
 India start many movements only for the separation they struggle and 
 sacrifice their lives for their generations. After this effort on 14th 
 of August, 1947, Quaid e Azam M.A Jinnah and all the Muslims succeed by 
 getting a separate state.

Location and Climate
The geographical location of Pakistan is in southern Asia. 
The neighboring countries are China, India, Afghanistan, and 
India. There is a long coastal line with the Arabian Sea in the south.
 The mountain ranges of Karakoram and Pamir are located on northern
  and western highlands. Pakistan also has all four seasons because 
  of the location, winter from December through February, spring from
   March through May, summer rainy season from June through September
    and the retreating monsoon period of October and November. The
     beginning and length of these seasons vary according to the location. 
     Pakistan also consist number of Rivers and river Indus is the biggest
      river.

Districts
Pakistan has four provinces, two territories, and two special areas. 
The special areas are in Kashmir. The provinces and territories were 
divided into 26 divisions and now the 147 districts directly divided 
from the provinces. The four provinces are Baluchistan, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 
(formerly NWFP), Punjab and Sindh. Among all these provinces Baluchistan 
is the largest one by area. Baluchistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa both have 
PATA (Provincially Administered Tribal Areas) which are going to be regular
 districts. The territories are Islamabad CapitalTerritory and Federally 
 Administered Tribal Areas. Azad Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan are the 
 Administrative areas of Pakistan.